Splendor Duel Rules

As the master of a guild of jewelers, you create majestic adornments of the highest quality
for monarchs and other powerful leaders of the Renaissance to increase your prestige and
fortune. However, you have an ambitious rival, and it's time to show your worth!


CONTENTS

A  1 Victory tile
B  67 Jewel cards divided into 3 levels
C  1 Bag
D  3 Privilege scrolls
E  25 Tokens: 4 in each of the 5 gem colors (blue, white, green, black, and red),
   2 Pearls, and 3 Gold
F  1 Board
G  4 Royal cards


SETUP

Follow these steps in order:

Step 1  Shuffle the 3 decks of Jewel cards separately, then place them in a column,
        with the deck of level 1 cards at the bottom.

Step 2  Reveal: 3 level-3 cards, 4 level-2 cards, and 5 level-1 cards to form a pyramid
        below the Victory tile.

Step 3  Place the board below this pyramid and randomly place the 25 tokens on it,
        starting with the central space and following the printed spiral.

Step 4  Place the 3 Privilege scrolls above the board.

Step 5  Place the 4 Royal cards below the board.

Step 6  Choose the first player randomly. Their opponent takes 1 Privilege and places
        it in front of themself.


GAME OVERVIEW

The players take turns, one after another, until the end of the game is triggered. On your
turn, you take tokens from the board or use those in your possession to buy Jewel cards,
which award you with the Prestige points and Crowns you require to win. These cards also
offer special abilities and bonuses, which reduce the cost of acquiring future Jewel cards.

To win, you must fulfill one of the three conditions indicated on the Victory tile.


PLAYER TURN

On your turn, you first perform none, one, or both of the optional actions (in the indicated
order). Then, you must perform one mandatory action.


Optional Actions

1 - Use a Privilege
    Return 1 or more Privileges to their place above the board. For each Privilege returned,
    take 1 Gem or Pearl token of your choice from the board. This action cannot be used to
    take a Gold token.
    Your tokens must be visible to your opponent at all times. We recommend sorting them
    in piles by color.

2 - Replenish the Game Board
    You cannot perform this action if the bag is empty. Mix the tokens in the bag and place
    them on empty spaces, starting with the central space and following the printed spiral
    until the bag is empty. Then, your opponent takes 1 Privilege as a penalty for the
    player who replenished.

Important: During the game, when you must take a Privilege and there are none left above
the board, take 1 from your opponent. A single player may hold all 3 Privileges. If you
already have all 3 Privileges, nothing happens.


Mandatory Action

You must perform one of the following three actions:
  - Take up to 3 tokens
  - Take 1 Gold token and reserve 1 Jewel card
  - Purchase 1 Jewel card

Special case: If you cannot perform any of the mandatory actions, you must perform the
"Replenish the Game Board" optional action before choosing your mandatory action.
"Purchase 1 Jewel card" is considered impossible if you cannot afford any card in the
pyramid or your reserve, as well as when no such cards exist.


Take up to 3 Tokens

Take up to 3 adjacent Gem and/or Pearl tokens from the board. All tokens taken must form
a single uninterrupted horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line. You can take 2 adjacent tokens
or even a single token. This action cannot be used to take a Gold token.

If you use this action to take 3 tokens of the same color or 2 Pearls, your opponent
takes 1 Privilege.


Take 1 Gold Token and Reserve 1 Jewel Card

You cannot perform this action if there are no Gold tokens on the board, or if you already
have 3 reserved cards. First, take 1 Gold token of your choice from the board. Then, you
must either:
  - Take 1 Jewel card of your choice from the pyramid, OR
  - Draw the top card from one of the 3 decks (level 1, level 2, or level 3).

You cannot have more than 3 reserved cards. Keep your reserved cards secret from your
opponent (either facedown in front of you, or in your hand). You may look at your reserved
cards at any time.

This action is the only way to take a Gold token. Reserved cards, like cards in the pyramid,
have no effect until they are purchased. There is no penalty for having reserved cards at the
end of the game.

When you reserve a card from the pyramid, replace it with a new card from the corresponding
deck, placing it faceup in the pyramid. If the corresponding deck is empty, the card is not
replaced.


Purchase 1 Jewel Card

Choose a card from the pyramid or your reserve, pay its cost in tokens (as depicted on the
bottom left of the card), and place that card faceup in front of you. Gold tokens are wild and
can be used in place of any Gem or Pearl token. Place spent tokens in the bag.

Once purchased, a Jewel card grants you its bonus(es), depicted on the top right. Each bonus
decreases the cost of future card purchases. Some Jewel cards have 2 bonuses, thereby
granting a 2 token reduction.

It is possible to have enough bonuses to reduce the cost of a card to 0 tokens. The cost of a
card may not be reduced below 0, meaning you cannot gain tokens when purchasing cards.
There are no Pearl bonuses.

Organize the cards you purchase in front of you, sorted by bonus color. Cards may be
overlapped to save space. However, the top of the card (where points, Crowns, and bonuses
are depicted) must remain visible.

Example: Julie has 6 bonuses (3 red, 2 blue, and 1 green). She wants to buy the white card,
which costs 3 blue, 5 red, 3 black, and 1 Pearl. Thanks to her bonuses, she only needs to pay
1 blue, 2 red, 3 black, and 1 Pearl to purchase the white card. She returns the spent tokens
to the bag.

When you purchase a card from the pyramid, replace it with a new card from the corresponding
deck, placing it faceup in the pyramid.


CARD ABILITIES

If the card you just purchased has an ability, resolve that effect now.

  Turn:      Take another turn immediately after this one ends. If you purchase another
             Turn card during that extra turn, you take yet another turn, and so on.

  Bonus:     Place this card so that it overlaps a Jewel card with a bonus. Treat this
             card's bonus as though it were the same color of the card it is overlapping.
             This color assignment is permanent and cannot be changed. If you do not have
             a card with a bonus, you cannot purchase this card. A Bonus card cannot be
             placed overlapping another Bonus card.

  Token:     Take 1 token matching the color of this card from the board. If there are no
             such tokens left, ignore this effect.

  Privilege: Take 1 Privilege. If none are available, take 1 from your opponent.

  Take:      Take 1 Gem or Pearl token from your opponent. This is mandatory if your
             opponent has any eligible tokens. If your opponent has no such tokens, ignore
             this effect. You cannot take a Gold token from your opponent.


CROWNS

The top of some Jewel cards depict 1 or more Crowns. Upon acquiring your 3rd Crown, take
1 of the available Royal cards and resolve its ability. Upon acquiring your 6th Crown, take
1 of the available Royal cards and resolve its ability. Taking a Royal card is not an action.
Place your Royal cards next to your Jewel cards. No further Royal cards are awarded beyond
the 6th Crown milestone.

Example: By purchasing the white card, Julie acquires her 3rd Crown, which allows her to
take one of the available Royal cards. The card she takes grants her 1 Privilege and 2
Prestige points.


END OF PLAYER TURN

Once you have completed your mandatory action, count your tokens (Gems, Pearls, and Gold —
including Gold tokens). If you have more than 10 tokens in total, you must discard down to
10 tokens. Choose which ones to discard and return them to the bag.

Finally, check if you have fulfilled any of the three victory conditions. If you have, you win!
If not, your opponent's turn begins.


VICTORY CONDITIONS

If you fulfill one or more of the victory conditions at the end of your turn, the game ends
immediately.

1  If you have 20 or more Prestige points, you win!

2  If you have 10 or more Crowns, you win!

3  If you have 10 or more Prestige points on cards of the same color, you win! A card is
   considered to be of the same color as the cards it is grouped with. Note that a card's
   color reassigned via the Bonus ability is permanent, so it counts as its assigned color
   for this condition.
